{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12440\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\documentclass[a4paper,man,natbib,floatsintext,import]\{apa6\}\
\
\\usepackage\{longtable\}\
\\usepackage[english]\{babel\}\
\\usepackage[table]\{xcolor\}\
\\usepackage\{lscape\}\
\\usepackage[utf8x]\{inputenc\}\
\\usepackage\{amsmath\}\
\\usepackage\{graphicx\}\
\\usepackage[colorinlistoftodos]\{todonotes\}\
\\usepackage\{pdfpages\}\
\
\\title\{Analogical Transfer in a Hebb Repetition Paradigm\}\
\\author\{Oesch Adrian\}\
\\affiliation\{University of Zurich\}\
\\shorttitle\{Analogical Transfer in a Hebb Repetition Paradigm\}\
\\begin\{document\}\
\
\\includepdf\{cover\}\
\\section*\{Abstract\}\
\cf2 Previous research has shown that participants unintentionally map analogical word pairs on to each other due to relational similarity\cf0  \\citep\{Popov2015,Estes2006\}. Also, it has been \cf2 discovered\cf0  that structural similarity guides analogical retrieval in reminding studies \\citep\{Wharton1996\}. This thesis aims to combine those lines of research and investigates unintentional analogical transfer on the basis of mere structural similarity. By combining the Hebb repetition paradigm with original story material, a novel experimental setting was developed to investigate this hypothesis and contribute to growing evidence that analogical transfer is not a deliberative reasoning process, but happens also unintentionally. Weak evidence (5\\%-sign. level) for this hypothesis was obtained in experiment 1, where an increased recall performance over trial index in stories with high structural similarity \cf2 was\cf0  observed. This effect could not be replicated in experiment 2, where a limited reading time was introduced.\
\
\\newpage\
\\tableofcontents\
%\\listoftables\
%\\listoffigures\
\
\\newpage\
\\section\{Introduction\}\
\\subsection\{Analogy: What is it good for?\}\
\cf2 Recently I was listening to a podcast about economics where an expert compared money to blood.\cf0  He explained that when our economy would be our body, then the blood would be the money and the heart would be the financial sector distributing the blood around the body. I immediately felt I had a better understanding of why money and banks are relevant to our financial system.\
This is a typical example of \cf2 an\cf0  analogy. Through the alignment of entities \cf2 of a\cf0  \cf2 less known\cf0  system to the entities \cf2 of\cf0  a better known system, I started attaching the unknown to the known. Every analogy has two models\cf2 : a\cf0  source and a target model. \cf2 The expert uses the information from the better known model, i.e. the blood system in the previous example, in order to explain the value of the monetary system. Thus, the blood model is the source and the monetary system is the target. \cf0 The process of alignment is called mapping. In a well matching analogy every element of the source model has a counterpart in the target model. Blood gets mapped on to money and the heart on to the financial system. I already knew that the heart allocates the necessary resources to different organs by pushing blood throughout the body. \cf2 Because we can map those relations from the target on to the source and their corresponding entities, this process is also called analogical transfer.\cf0  The more entities and relations of two models match on to each other, the higher the systematicity of an analogy is \\citep\{Gentner1997\}. I can try to align more elements to increase the systematicity of our previous example: If blood is money and the heart is the financial sector, the organs might be different industries. Each \cf3 industry/\cf2 organ \cf0 has a different \cf2 function\cf0 , but still all of them rely on having a \cf2 sufficient\cf3  \cf0 blood/financial supply. \cf2 Also, the higher the blood supply of an organ is\cf0 , the more energy it can use. Similarly, a higher blood supply could be mapped \cf2 on\cf0  to higher investment opportunities in some industries than in others in the financial model. The brain for example uses a lot more oxygen and therefore needs a higher blood supply. \cf2 Analogically one could say that the insurance industry is a finance heavy sector and is equally important to an economy as the brain is to the body.\cf0  We have hereby increased the systematicity of this analogy, because the mapped systems grew bigger and more elements could be matched on to each other. \cf2 But this alignment process can also be stretched too far and mapping opportunities have limits:\cf0  If blood is money, what then is the oxygen in the blood regarding the financial sector? Generally people tend to prefer analogies with higher systematicity for inference as the coherence and soundness of the comparison is increased \\citep\{Clement1991\}.\
\
Due to its powerful applications analogies can be found in numerous professional domains. An often cited example within the realm of schools and education is the comparison of electricity to the flow of fluids that teachers use to explain new concepts like voltage in science class \\citep\{Treagust1992,Dupin1989,Gentner1982\}. Other researchers have investigated analogies in politics. It \cf2 was expedient\cf0  for president Bush Sr. to compare Saddam Hussein to Adolf Hitler when entering the war in Kuwait in 1991, because he wanted the attributes from Hitler to be also attributed to Saddam Hussein \\citep\{MacDonald2002\}. Analogies are also common in other situations of persuasion like in marketing \\citep\{Herzenstein2014,Cornelissen2003\} and they are also considered to be very important in the innovative process in science, research and development \\citep\{Gentner2002\}. \\cite\{Dunbar2001\} found \cf2 out\cf0  that scientists heavily rely on analogies in lab meetings. Yet another impressive feature of analogies is that knowledge that was \cf2 acquired\cf0  through analogical comparison is used more frequently in similar subsequent tasks, than if the same material is just summerised \\citep\{Gentner2003a,Loewenstein1999\}. Also, the Ravens Matrices Test, which relies on analogical reasoning, is one of the common standard tests to measure general intelligence \\citep\{Carpenter1990\}.\
\
Apart from systematicity, analogies can also differ regarding the level of similarity. Comparing a story with dogs to a story with cats is a close analogy, because both animals share a lot of surface features like the \cf2 number\cf0  of legs, \cf2 the\cf0  tail, \cf2 the\cf0  fur, \cf2 the\cf0  way of moving and so on. \cf2 But\cf0  comparing a story with a dog to a story with \cf2 humans\cf0 , one has to focus on relations \cf2 in order\cf0  to detect similarities. Dogs and \cf2 humans\cf0  only share little salient features that make them comparable\cf2  to each other\cf0 . Only \cf2 by\cf0  considering the entities in relation to other entities we can detect similarities. When for example a \cf2 bitch\cf0  is watching out for her offspring, we can draw a parallel to a \cf2 woman\cf0  taking care of her child. This comparison is based on the similar relation between the entities, e.g. "watching out for" and "taking care of someone". Through this more abstract level of similarity, we can also map the entities on to each other. Without any kind of similarity, it is not possible to map models on to each other, because no entities and relations can be aligned.\
\cf2 Remote analogies or true analogies \\citep\{Wharton1996\} - the mapping of models with no or only little surface similarity - are the most challenging analogies because they rely on an even more abstract level of similarity\cf0 : structural similarity or higher order relational similarity \\citep\{Catrambone2002\} (examples will follow). Detecting remote analogies can be especially advantageous in problem solving situations, when search strategies based on surface features have not triggered a detection of a suitable solution. One can also think of it as \cf2 an expansion\cf0  \cf2 of the search\cf0  space. By relying on abstract features, the amount of potential candidates for \cf2 comparison\cf0  increases a lot.\
\
\\subsection\{Analogical Transfer and Problem Solving\}\
In a famous experiment \\cite\{Gick1980\} first presented \cf2 the\cf0  participants three stories. \cf2 They\cf0  had to first memorize those stories and recall the content \cf2 of\cf0  each story as precisely as possible. One of those stories was about an army general who wanted to invade a fortress. The general knew that if his army \cf2 reached\cf0  the fortress, his force \cf2 would\cf0  be big enough \cf2 to\cf0  capture it, but there was a problem. The army couldn't simply march towards the fortress, because the road leading to the fortress was mined and only small groups could safely pass it. The solution to the general's problem was to split his army into multiple smaller forces, which he then let simultaneously march on multiple roads from different directions onto the fortress. That way the many \cf2 small\cf0  groups could pass the mined roads and rejoin forces at the fortress, to then attack and conquer it. This is also called an attack-dispersion solution. The other two stories served as distractors and were as nonanalogical as possible to the general story but similar in length.\
\
After all stories were memorized, recalled and a short break, participants were \cf2 confronted\cf0  with a new a problem solving task: \cf2 a\cf0  doctor has a patient with a tumor in his stomach. The patient can't be operated \cf2 and thus\cf0  is going to die unless the tumor is removed. The doctor could \cf2 make use of\cf0  rays, which \cf2 might\cf0  destroy the tumor when intense enough, but they would also damage the healthy tissue on the way to the tumor. At lower intensity, the rays don't damage the healthy tissue but neither the tumor. The solution to the doctor's problem is to apply the attack-dispersion schema like in the story with the general: split the bundled force into multiple weaker ones, and only join the forces together where it is necessary. This inference from one story to the other can only be transferred if \cf2 the participant detects\cf0  the similarity between the general's and \cf2 the\cf0  doctor's problem. Rays don't look like an army, and a fortress shares only very few features with a tumor, therefore it can be argued that only structural similarity can be the foundation of this analogy.\
\
The way the two stories are presented in the \cf2 previous paragraph\cf0  \cf2 makes the analogy evident and easy to detect.\cf0  \cf2 But i\cf0 n the experiment by \\cite\{Gick1980\} only 21\\% of participants in the group without a hint came up with the dispersion solution, versus 91 \\% in the group with a hint. \\cite\{Gick1983\} replicated the solution rates in various slight modifications of this experiment, leaving the question open: why is it that hard to detect similarities between systems based on structural similarity? Why do spontanous remote analogies, the main focus of this thesis, occur relatively rarely?\
\
\\cite\{Gick1980\} \cf2 argues\cf0  that memory might be sensitive to the encoding context. In the first experimental phase the story material was encoded in the context of a memorization task, while later they were \cf2 confronted \cf0 with a problem solution task. Why should anyone assume those tasks have anything in common and therefore relate the content of both \cf2 tasks\cf0  to each other? Also, they further argue that analogical retrieval might be sensitive to the semantic context of the target story in problem solving tasks. Why should one be reminded of a general when trying to solve a doctors problem? One could just as well think of farmers or teachers. They share about the same features (surface similarity) with the doctor as \cf2 with\cf0  the general. Various experiments showed that analogical retrieval is much more likely when the source and target models have similarities on lower levels of similarity i.e. the surface \\citep\{Gentner1993,Holyoak1987\}.}